The only money they have is getting lifetime
memberships, and most of them sold them too cheap.
Yeah, I expect some. Okay, so things are really,
let's say, becoming professionalized in the
association and the money-raising activities.
Well, meanwhile, I developed a staff. Ms.
Shepherd got sick, and Delucia had been my
neighbor over on Suffolk Street, and I didn't know
her well. I just knew her. her as a person, and her
husband was very ill at the time. And I knew she was
taking him to the hospitals a lot. He was a
veterinarian with the USDA. And she was running,
after they separated, she was running the
cafeteria in the MSC. And I had Joe Buser as editor.
And then by this time, I'd had a couple more. We kept
upgrading the magazine at the time. Well, I tried
to get that magazine in a comfortable big time.
Basically, the only criticism I've ever gotten on
the magazine is we do a lot of fundraising in it. But
after all, the former student's budget is what
supports the magazine. And the foundation and the
12th Man Foundation, they pay for their ads in
there. So that magazine's expensive. God, that
printing. And we use that color process all the
time. And oh, I want to tell you about this
University of Pennsylvania. When we got ready to
print the first directory, we went directly from
the address graph plates right smack into tape on
the computer. Went to the 7094, went to 709 first
and then 7094. But we went from address graph
plates from a questionnaire to a punch card. And
the punch cards is how we went on tape. So in 1966 we
were getting ready to print a directory, and Frank
Cheryl from Dallas, had introduced me to a guy
named Bill Mason from Flower Town, Pennsylvania,
who was a pioneer in the world of photo line
typesetting. It hadn't really hit off yet,
because the old cold and hot typesetters were
fighting it like crazy. And he said, it's the wave
of the future. So I called him and said, I met you in
Fort Worth with Frank Cheryl, who was a
typesetter. And he said, yeah, I remember you. I
said, well, we're ready to talk to you now about
setting the time for this directly. He said, well,
bring me a loop of tape up here. And he said, come on
up, spend a couple of days with me. So I stayed with
him in his house. I'd been in a meeting in
Washington with the American Alumni Council. I
took the bus up to Philadelphia. And then he met me
at the bus station and went up to his house in
Florentine. Oh, he had this damn thing. I was
really impressed with that whole thing. So I
stayed there a couple of days. And he ran it and ran
it and ran it. Boy, it was looking good. And he said,
boy, I'm sure happy to have this book. He had a hell
of a time financing his company, because these
people were too leery of him. He was too much way
ahead of his time. And he finally went and broke
them. And I think some printers picked him up, and
he survived the thing somehow. But our book helped
him. Our book really helped. We had the first
alumni directory on Earth printed by a computer
tape. Type was set by it. And he had those great big
lights and all this stuff. Photos were in a line.
That's why I call it a photo line typesetting. They
call it something else now. But anyway, I stopped
by the University of Pennsylvania and thanked
those people for their ideas about the annual
giving and their $100 and their Ben Franklin. I
said, I called mine the Century Club. And they'd
say, oh, we know all about it. I said, you made it
more successful than we did. So I told them about my
directory, and they said, who's doing that? I
said, aren't you on tape yet? They said, yeah,
we're on tape, but we're not doing much with it.
They said, we certainly don't print a directory or
anything like that with it. Who's doing it? I said,
one of your alumni named Bill Mason in the class of
1939 over in Flyertown. They said, Bill Mason, we
never heard of him. I said, well, you can call him.
It would be nice for you to go out and visit with him
and look at his setup, because he'll help you do a
lot of things with your computer in the way of
typesetting and design. So that was really an
interesting little sideline of getting
computers done. But those pioneer days. So my
little story, and Doug Yager was the graduate
student that did the conversion from dress,
graph, tooth. See, his thesis was about like that,
and for which he got all kinds of awards from IBM and
everybody else. I'd take my questionnaire and
directory, and I said, here it is. Between this
questionnaire and this directory is a very, very
complicated matter. But I said, it's worth it.
That 67 book was printed by computer, and ever
since then we've been doing it. But we got really
high in the computer field with that first
directory. That was real. That's interesting.
The only woman over there that still went to
Stardust is Jean Sher. She went through it all. She
started from the very beginning in the 60s. See,
Dick left in 64. They listed in 63, and they listed
in 64. He really left in 64. I mean, it's got to
change gears for just a second. What was your
involvement with athletic activities and
programs as a former student? Well, we had to
conduct all the coaches' nights. We took the coach
around to the clubs and all that stuff, and they all
wanted to see the coach, because we wanted to come
and buy tickets and fill the stadium up. That's
what we were trying to do. And get them to charter
buses and bring buses, bring people in for games
and all that kind of stuff. So the involvement was
fundraising for the stadium, for the Letterman's
Association. They didn't have anything like
that. They just had a group that selected the Hall
of Fame. That's how it goes. See, Fulberg wanted
two things started. That was a Hall of Fame and a
Letterman's Association Hall of Fame and the
quarterback club. Well, the quarterback club was
easy. I just called about five guys and had lunch
with them and said, here's a proposal. And if
you're interested in this, and Coach, I said,
Coach Folberg is ready here to talk to you how he
wants to use it. And so they grabbed that like a, at
least I got out of that. Damn, I thought I was going
to have to do that too. Because he asked me to do it. I
said, no, I said, it's better to have volunteers do
this. That's what you want. And so we go back to the
other stuff, the Hall of Fame. We couldn't get the
Lettermen to take any interest because they
wouldn't pay any dues. Well, we had to have some
dues to hire a secretary, see? And so I was having to
do that work, getting a folder printed. See, I'm
using former student money for athletics and for
everything else. Plus, we'd have to process the
gifts. People would make money to, so it was a
restricted gift. We'd have to process and write to
the agency or whatever who was ever going to do the
work. Now, they had the Aggie Club was there, but
nobody was doing anything with it. We didn't even
have a secretary. We had a part-time secretary.
which was my roommate, and then Marion Pugh, and
then Homer Adams was in there someplace, but he
lies a lot. And then there was John Hopkins was the
first one. When Stallings came, Stallings called
me one day and said, say, oh, this is interesting.
You know this TAM? Well, I stole that from TCU. and
you see the the thing about tcu it doesn't look very
good and they were using they were using this big
block t like this and they're using a c over here and
u well that didn't look very damn good and so i one
day i'd i'd do it like this and i wrote a m now that
looks nice because you got the flow downwards see
here it it looks clumsy see and so uh oh the glide
folks So anyway, I didn't say anything to anybody.
I just started using this on mailing pieces and
just using it. I didn't put it on stationery. I was
using the seal for that. I used a former student
seal, or the university seal with former students
wrapped around it, see? And I just started using
this on various and sundry mailing pieces. And I
got a letter one day from Clyde Post that says, you
dirty rat. Why have you stolen our logo? I know he
found out. I called him, and I said, Clyde, I said, I
didn't steal your logo. I said, I'm using AM
instead of C. I said, your CU doesn't look good
anyway. That's not a very good looking damn thing.
I said, do you have a copyright on it? He said, no. I
said, well, then why can't I use it? He said, oh,
hell, I know once you start it, you won't quit now.
So they then changed their logo to the one that you
see they have now. Yeah, I have seen that. That's a
good one. They make it white on the side of their
football helmets and stuff. But anyway, this was
the original. I stole that from TCU. Yeah, well,
see, that looks good. This looks terrible. You
would think this had been there all the time.
Hasn't. I think I started using it in 1960. maybe
two or three early, right after I'd been here about
a year. Whenever I saw that TCU on the helmets, I
thought, damn, AM would look like that. That
doesn't look right. It would look good if you had
two years under it. Now, that might look better.
But the AM really looked nice. And so Stallings
called me and said, say, I know some of that stuff
you got around here. Willard Clark made some
jewelry with it and all that stuff. He said, could I
use that on the football helmets? I said, sure. I
said, there's no copyright on anything. I said,
now there is now, I think. But I said, anybody, you
can use it, sure. I said, get a decal company, and
I'll give you some names of them. I always said,
give that to whoever, Bones or Wally. I guess
Wally. I said, give it to them. So I gave them the
names of these decal companies. They'll make you
the decals and show you how to mount them. Billy
Pickard will do that. Monk Meeks, I think, was down
there then. So I was involved with the athletic
department on the coaches' nights and on the
meetings. In fact, on the council meetings, we'd
always have the head coach come over. So we were
interlocked. But that proved me more and more that
we got to get a full-time person with the Aggie
Club. So Stallings was all for it. And I said, well,
if you can't make the budget on painting the first
year, I said, give me a budget or something, and
I'll help you with money from the former students.
I said, we've got to get this off our backs. And he
said, let me look around. So there was a classmate
of his named John Hopkins. And John was hired as the
first full-time secretary for the Aggie Club. And
he had a couple assistants. And John's problem was
he got so damn authoritative, and he got so
possessive. For example, he'd hurt people's
feelings. The whole thing was wrapped around, by
God, you've got to pay so-and-so, or you're done.
You've got to be more diplomatic. When you're
fundraising, you can't hurt people's feelings
somehow. You've got to kiss their ass the whole
time. They may not like the smell, but God damn it,
you better have your nose plugged up like that when
you kiss them. So anyway, this is the story of TAM.
What I want to ask you, too, about the athletic
thing is, did you feel much heat or pressure as
director of former students from former students
who felt like the former students should exercise
greater control or influence or whatever over
athletic programs. Was there a lot of rub there, a
lot of pressure? Yeah. And they felt that we ought
to have more authority, we ought to have more say,
more input. And that kind of puts you in a tight spot
between the two. I would guess it would. I'd get my
weekly phone call from a local lawyer here, and
he'd say, You son of a bitch, you've done it to me
again. And hang up the phone every time we lose a
game, see? So then I'd call back and say, now, Ed, Ed
Davis, so why don't you call me? Why don't you call
the coach? He said, hell, I can't call the coach. He
won't talk to anybody. I can't call the president.
Hell, he'd say, this is not my thing. I said, he
said, you're the only son of a bitch I pay out there.
Your job is to get that. That's a good point. Every
time you lose a football game, it's your goddamn
fault. So you're kind of a hang guy. He said, why
don't you fire that son of a bitch? I bet you caught a
lot of heat. Oh, I did. Just awful. We were losing so
much, it was changing a lot of coaches and so on.
Yeah, it was tough, tough. My biggest problem was
getting involved in the Ballard affair. Because
we had a lot of former students who were crazy about
him, but liked him, hated to see him go. But then
there's the powerful boys, hated that wishbone
formation. They wanted us to use the T-set,
pro-set, you know. And the eye, oh, God, it was big.
And here, they were telling Dr. Williams, he said,
we have a Director of Athletics, which was then the
coach. That was bad. They should never have had
that. But that's the only way they could get Bear
Bryant. Bear Bryant had been browbeaten by that
basketball coach at Kentucky, see, Doc Rupp. What
is it? Doc Ruff? Ruff? Ruff? Whoever the
basketball hero was there. And so there was a lot of
consternation. Yeah, former students have
always been involved. Now, we're not so much now
since the 12th Man Foundation. Tubman now has over
$18 million in endowments for the 12-man
scholarships. And that's strictly athletic.
Strictly athletic, right. Income from that goes
to the athletic department. Dr. Williams met with
them. He said to me, he said, what should I tell
these people? And I said, Dr. Williams, I think you
should tell them that the best program that they
can latch onto is to set up an endowment for every
athletic scholarship. Of course, he didn't
realize they were going to have all these women's
programs and all the other things. It would
double, triple the whole budget. Now we've got a
$14 million budget now for the athletic
department. That's staggering, see? And he said,
I think, he said, if the former students can endow
the president's scholarships, why can't the
Aggie Club endow the 12th Man Scholarship? And so
he met with their board, and that's what he told
them, and that's what launched it. Well, they had a
bad guy over there. He was a bad guy. And so the job
was open, and I helped get him fired. He was wearing
a fake Aggie ring, and so I had an anonymous photo.
The guy was not an Aggie at all? Yeah, he'd been here
for three years.
His roommate... was Ross Margraves, who's
chairman of the Board of Regents. That was his
roommate. And Ross Margraves called someone and
said, who's chairman of the Ring Committee? They
said, Buck Meyers. And he said, well, you call him
and tell him to check on Don Brister's ring. So I
called over to Registrar's office. Now, let me
tell you how secure things aren't. I called over to
Registrar's office. Now, someone in my office, I
guess, heard me talking.
And I used that name, Brister. And I called over to
Ed Cooper, to the registrar, and I said, I want you
to pull a transcript of Don Brister, class 63. And
I'll be right over. I want to look at it. I don't want
to listen to it on the phone. So I walked over to the
Koch building, and they had Brister's. Shit, he
had 68 hours. And I don't know how many grade
points, but it was pretty bad. And he was saying,
Aggie Ring, you can't order until you get 92. It was
96 hours. Then it's 93 hours now.
And so I walked back. When I got back to my office,
Brister was in my office. How the hell did he know
that? See, the only people who knew were the
registrar in my office. Someone leaked. See, can
you imagine the president of the United States? I
can see now. How are those things going to happen?
Just imagine. I don't think you can secure
anything. under the threat of death, maybe, but I
don't know how, boy. So he was in my office, and he
says, what should I do? I said, well, number one,
throw that damn ring in the Brazos River. Divest
yourself of it. Destroy it. Lose it. Number two,
call your president, Bob Little, in Houston, and
ask him to call a board meeting, executive
committee meeting from the board, and resign. I
said, you have no business walking around here
with a fake Aggie ring on. I said, that's awfully,
awfully... Devious, nothing else. Dishonest.
It's a terrible thing. I said, if people knew that,
it would just be a scandal. I said, let's don't have
any scandal. Let's don't publicize it. Just
resign. Well, he called Bob Little, and they met,
and of course they got rid of him. At that time,
Harry Green was flopping around out here between
hotels and the real estate business. It had gone
broke under Bob Baker and the Arnold boys.
Aggieland Inn had gone under, and so I wrote a
letter to Bob Little, and Bob Little told me, he
said, you really fucked up that ring job. I said, I
did. He said, yes, why didn't you call me? I said, I
didn't have a chance to. I said, by the time I found
out what his grades were and all that stuff and came
back to my office, he was waiting for me there. So I
told him to bail out. He said, well, I should have
been notified first. And I said, well, I'm sorry.
It just didn't work out that way. I said, it wasn't
that I didn't want to. I was coming back to the
office to call you. But I saw no reason to call you
with the man standing there. And I said, he called
you, didn't he? He said, yeah, sure did. He said,
well, he said, I was just mad as hell at you for not
letting me know that. So, you know, I get help for
whatever. Yeah, I bet you did, but I have pressure
in me. No, the coaching pressure is like it is in any
big school. The alumni are in the middle of it. The
big thing is we've got the money separated, and
that's good. How about the budget of the former
Students Association? Do you remember any growth
rates? I can get the figures, but just as a general.
Well, boy, listen, when I came there, we just
didn't have any money. We had some university
commitments. We had the loan fund to administer
and the student loan fund. See, when Bob Walker
went over, we moved the loan fund over. Oh, no, no,
no, no, no, no. When the student aid office, now
Rudder was good about that, except he wouldn't pay
anybody anything. When we got the student aid
office set up, Bob Logan was the first one hired.
Rudder tried to hire Bob Murray, Juanita Murray's
husband. And he wouldn't give him anything, but
he'd say, well, he'd been a counselor, a civilian
student counselor. And you know, they don't work
much, and it's kind of a bullshit job. But where he
asked him what salary, and the runner said, well,
you have to come at your same salary. And Bob says,
well, it is now. He said, I'm given quite a bit of
freedom. He said, I'd expect to get a little raise
or something. And the runner said, it's all I can do
right now, either take it or leave it. Bob says,
well, I think I'll leave it. Well, he died a year
later. He was a World War II hero, shot all to
pieces. He had a heart attack. So Bob Logan, we
transferred the student loan program and all the
opportunity where scholarships went from
development to him, to the administration of all
scholarships came out of the Student Financial
Aid, finally where they should be. They shouldn't
be run by development. They shouldn't be run by the
former students. They ought to be run by the
university. What was roughly the income of the
former students when you came? Do you have any
idea? Yeah, I sure do. It's right here. I sure do.
It's all right here. John did a good job on this
thing. What do I got in here?
I'll be darned. I got all kinds of crap in here. I've
used this. I get stuff out of here for speeches all
the time. And yeah, we've got it in here someplace.
I can dig it out of there. No, I'd like to. What I was
saying is what it was when you came and what it was
when you... Yeah, I think we got all of that. I think
we got all of that. For
the presidency. We've
even got campus muster speakers in here. Okay,
it's got to be further back in here. Century Club
memberships.
We had a total of 370 in 1977.
We had 7,347, and I don't know what we had in 1980.
to 7,347. Oh, no.
The year before that, we had 8,355. We dropped.
from 76 to 77. See, 76 was the centennial year, and
that was a big point. Yeah, that's right. We jumped
335 between 75 and 76, so 8,355 in 76. That's the
century club memberships. That includes the
silver, bronze, silver, gold, diamond, and so on.
You retired when? In 80. In 80. And what was, let's
say, the income of the former Students
Association in that year, roughly? I don't even
know what you mean. We've got it in here.
I think we do, yeah. Oh, not 1980. This book only
went to some... I'm just saying some number that
you remember that would be... I don't remember.
You don't remember? I'll find it, that's all
right. And most of the money, most of the income of
the former students, would you say that was
dedicated income? I know you were doing the
faculty awards. for example, like we were doing
with scholarships. All that money, the money we
spend is unrestricted money. Unless someone
gives to a program. And then it's dedicated. They
give to a program. Then that money is dedicated for
that program. It's restricted for that purpose.
What do you think has been the major, I guess you
would say, accomplishment, or role, or purpose,
or goal of the former Students Association in its
relationship to Texas A&M? I got it. OK. The
greatest thing that the Association of Former
Students ever did for Texas A&M University was
after the long-range study I told you about that
recommended we have a full-time director, that we
publish a magazine, we have distinguished alumni
awards, and all these programs, a magazine, and so
on. In that study, it said, however, we can't
progress with our projects until the university
determines its future. Unless the university
sets its goals inside and has long-range plans on
what it intends to be by the centennial in 1976,
we recommend that the university have a
self-study to determine its future. That was the
greatest statement ever made because the Board of
Regents took that and said, OK, but will you help
us? And we said, former student says, yes, sir. We
will do two things. They said, we think that the
governor ought to appoint a study of 100 people to
the century study, which will give the goals by the
completion of the century in 1976 of the
university. We'll call that the Century Council.
Half former students and half Texans. Half of
them, the former students, will recommend to the
governor. The other half, the governor should
recommend himself with a certain percentage of
women. We think women ought to be appointed to this
study also.
Then the former students gave a $50,000 budget to
the university to hire a full-time man in
secretary, and that man was Robert L. Hunt, Jr. I
forget what he was doing at that time. His dad was
quite a beloved, famous old I guess an agronomy
professor or something like that. And this
launched a study that took a year long with
subcommittee meetings and so on, and they
produced the Blueprint for Progress, which
outlined the recommendations of the composition
of the student body, the changing of the status,
the name of the university, the Anacostia
Mechanic College of Texas to Texas A&M
University. And now, this is recommended to the
regents by this Blueprint for Progress, which is a
result of the Century Council. That is what's set,
and we recommend that the university be
restructured into colleges according to degree
programs, like liberal arts, like science, like
agriculture, engineering, architecture,
science and education, and veterinary medicine,
like architecture. See, many of these. divisions
were inside of the School of Arts and Sciences,
School of Engineering, and School of something.
They were not colleges, degree-granting
colleges. So we wanted to get the university,
certainly, by 76. Well, you know how fast that was
done. It was done next year. And we recommended
also that the women be admitted. And see, the
former students had to get that resolution passed
through the council. And that story is John
Lindsay was president of the association, and Bob
Latimer helped me write the resolution, because
he said, let me do it, let me do it, and was
recommending that we urge the board. And then, of
course, with that recommendation, the century
council had the support of the former students.
You remember when that resolution came out of the
former students? In other words, you're in 64. In
64. Uh-huh. When John Lindsay was, no, no, yeah,
64, that's right. The fall council meeting,
because President Rudder said, I have to have this
support for the former students before we can take
it to the regents, because that's the first thing
the regents are going to ask me. Because he talked
with the president of BPI. See, they'd gone
through that up there. They got the governor in.
They fired everybody. A terrible time. Oh, it was
awful. I don't know. Yeah, I ran into the guy that
did the BPI, one of the BPI histories, I think, and
he and I compared those, and I mean, right down,
even Auburn, incidentally. Yeah, same thing. The
history was really similar. These land-grant
schools, especially in the South? Yeah. Let's
see, 64, yeah, John H. Lindsay, Class 44, was
president. And, oh, we had some tough times around
here. I think I had more stress over that. I went to
Beaumont. I went to Beaumont and was literally ran
out of town. I heard that story. And I almost named
the man who... Charlie Babcock. Who nailed you.
Oh, listen, I was fired probably sometimes
several times a day. I'll get you fired. Because
they'd ask me. See, I'd tell them what the council,
what the association, what the central council.
And... what direction the university was going.
What do you personally think? I said, well, I
really don't have a personal because of my
position. I take the position, well, now let's
forget your position. We want to know what you
think. I said, I'm totally in favor of it. I said,
this university's got to enter the next century.
We've got to admit women on a limited basis. We can
no longer be a little college where the Corps of
Cadets is a student body. And when I said that, I was
just waving. They didn't kill me. They were so mad
at me. Do you think change has been a more difficult
thing for A&M than most schools? As it turned out,
no. It was initially. We had about two years of
hell. What two years were those? 69, 70, 71?
No. It was... I'll give you some... Let's see.
Uh... You see, in 63, the Board of Directors
permitted women to be enrolled on a limited basis.
Those were the tough years. Oh, man, that was
tough. Because the first time I saw women being
officially admitted in the catalog was 71. In the
catalog. But see, meanwhile, they were coming and
slipping and so on and so on. And it was really...
Nothing was said, they were just admitted. They
applied, they were admitted. That's what I, in the
last, especially the couple of years. Yeah, I'm
trying to think. Rudder's administration.
Yeah, 67, this one's about to come up here. I don't
think we even listed it as a thing, except this,
limited basis. I think it's, I don't think, You
know, another thing people have asked me over and
over, when black students first were admitted to
A&M? And I tell them, I don't know. 67. Happily, I
don't know. Is that right? Joe Busser guided the
first one through, took him personally. I've
never heard that before.
Uh-huh. Yeah. And after that, women came in,
unlimited, unlimited, 67.
Uh-huh. Because I was so close to, because I was
between Curley and Heaton, see? And old Heaton
called me and said, Bucket, call me Bucket,
Bucket. This is Lloyd. I always called him Homer
Lloyd. I said yes, Homer Lloyd, what can I do for
you? Seven o'clock in the morning. Bucket, Austin
quit. I said oh, oh Lloyd, I'm sorry to hear that. I
said you know Earl Rudder's really He said, I know
Bucket, but he quit. You know, Austin never got
along with me. And I said, well yeah, what can I do
for you? He said, well what am I going to do, Bucket?
He says, I can't advertise this thing. I said, you
got anybody? I said, sure. He said, who is it? I
said, it's my next door neighbor.
I said, well one side of me is Charles Landweber,
and on the other side of me is Ed Cooper. He said,
what's Ed doing? I said, well you know, they kicked
him around in that counseling business he really
didn't like. And he's now in the oil business and
he's driving an altar. He's got the, what's the
name of that guy's name, the man who had the
distributorship for Amoco here, they have
another word for it, you have a consignment. And I
said, he now has Brenham and Caldwell and Bryan. He
has this whole district here that he's driving an
oil truck around distributing gasoline and so on.
I said, I think he's doing OK as far as money is
concerned. But I said, he hasn't got to do that.
He's got talents. This university needs him.
Because the registrar is a critical thinker. We
had to go big time. So he said, well, can you have him
in my office at 9 o'clock? I said, he'll be there. So
I called Ed Cooper next door. This is about 7.10 by
now. I said, meet me in the backyard. I didn't want
to talk around his kids or Peggy or anybody or my
place. He said, meet me in the backyard. I said,
Homer Lyon called. He lost and quit. So a runner
will want a recommendation for a replacement.
And I said, I'm not asking you if you're going to do
it. I'm telling you, you're going to do it. And so
put a suit on, put a tie on, and be over at Lloyd's
office at 9 o'clock. And I said, and say yes. You got
all that, Cooper? God damn, Warwick. I said, I'm
class 42 and you're 50. I got 10 years on you. I said,
do what I say now. I said, you're not a damn oil man,
you're a people man. And you're made for people.
So... He went over there and Homer Lloyd just
assumed he was going to, I don't think Cooper ever
said yes, I'm taking it. Everybody told him what he
was going to do. It took him about two weeks to,
Kelly, Broach. Yeah, Broach, sure, Broach and
Brinkman. Yeah, sure, okay. And it took him about
that long. He told Broach that he'd just been
offered this opportunity with the university and
he was going to take it. And so Rudder dies and here
comes Williams. William said, who knows
everything about this campus? I said, Ed Cooper.
He said, well, can I get him? I said, well, he's
being groomed right now for registrar. And
William says, hell, I can get registrars from
anywhere. I can hire a registrar every day, but I
can't hire anybody that knows everything that's
going on, all the people and all about it. I need to
know inside. I need to know everyone. I said, well,
Ed was in this job up here before, former runner.
got rid of McCrory, he brought Cooper back from
extension service and put him in. And I said, he's
the best man for this job, because he's
diplomatic, he doesn't have any biases anywhere,
he'll tell you the truth, like I will, I'll tell you
the truth, about people and things, and so as best I
see it, because I try to look at all facets of a
person, and I find more good than bad in them, but
when they're bad, anyway, so he said, well, I want
him. He said, I won't keep you very long. I want him
for six months or something like that. I said,
well, he's used to being used. But I said, give him a
little boost in salary. And I helped him a little
bit. He's got a big family. He likes to screw a lot.
And I said, he's bred a lot of kids over there, four
or five of them. So Ed went up there with him a while
and helped him. And of course, Williams was smart.
He kept the whole staff. He kept Elder Rowell. He
had two staffs up there, the system and the
university. And that's what happened. Drugs
Miller took over. He didn't have any staff, but
they knew anything. That's where I really got in
trouble with him. He'd pull this book and all kinds
of shit like that. Well, it was a disaster in the
days of A&M. It wasn't anybody knows. Yeah, I bet
so.
which is tragic because the guy had been around
long enough that he should have known. Oh, he
should have taken Nelda. He should have got on his
knees and said, let me have Nelda, let me have
somebody that's been through this. And he should
not, but when Nelda did one work, plus he bought his
whole experiment station staff up there. Yeah,
but you know, I still see signs of that. I'll tell
you something a little while ago that I ran across,
the same kind of mentality. It's incredible.
Anyway. OK, about the time you're leaving now, the
80s. Oh, I didn't find that. That's OK. It's in
here. I'll find it. It's in here. It's under the
annual fund drive. Now, let's see. Here we go. OK,
now here it is. Texas A&M Foreign Students Annual
Giving. In 1942, we had 6,000 contributions. 43,
that's when the annual fund started. It was called
the Development Fund of the Association of
Foreign Students. I changed it to the annual fund
when we tried to get that development foundation
going. A lot of people give me credit for getting
these foundations going. I got them to get them off
my back. I was doing their damn work. And I knew that
we should have this structure. And a lot of people
said, well, you've got everything to compete with
you. I said, because that's not the role of an
alumni association. It's the role of a
university. It's the role of the athletic
department for the 12th Man Foundation. And we
finally got everything named right. So the alumni
association, its business is not to manage money.
Its business is to raise money. Well, to raise
money annually from former students, annual
giving. And what else? Long-term endowment
giving and wills and bequests, that's the job of
the foundation. And what else would you say is the
role of the former students? To nurture the former
students, to set up the railroad track down which
development go to get the big bucks. See, it's our
job to provide a communications vehicle, which is
the Texas Aggie Magazine. annual council
meetings because we've got a wonderful
organization of councilmen and board directors.
Which in turn is to nurture the university.
Absolutely. The whole thing is to make former
students feel good. That's why we want the
president to come to reunions and the football
coach to come to the council meetings to make them
feel good, to make them feel like they're
important and somebody and so on. And mainly we
want to perpetuate the devotion they developed
during their college days. Which you have an
exceptional success. Okay, I came in 1961. Let's
see, 1960 we had 9,000 contributors for $178,000.
My first year here, 61, we jumped to 13,000. That
was city campaign, see? 61 was 13,094
contributors. for $304,000. Then
in 1962, we had 17,468
contributors for $283,000. We dropped down a
little there. And in 1963, we dropped down again
14,744 contributors And let's see, I'm going to
have to get a better thing here.
We're back up to $316,000. 63, 14,744, 316,000.
64, 14,000 contributors for 267,000. And just
let's go down here to 71. We had, oh, 1969 was our
first million dollar year. In 1969, we had 17,932
contributors for $1,073,071.27. That
was our first million-dollar year, and it's over
$4 million now, I think. That's annual giving. In
1971, we had another million. From then on, it was
made. I don't know whether this goes through. Oh,
no, here it is. This goes through 1977. About 1976,
we broke $2 million. 1976, we went to 27,000
contributors, 27,352. Now, that was only about,
you know, that was only about, let's see, how many
folks do we have? When I came here, we had about 40,
we had 30,000. When I left, we had 100,000. And then
now there's 200,000. This commencement will put
200,000. Yeah, I remember all those numbers.
27,352 contributors in 76 for $2,427,830.
Say that again now. 2,000,000. I'll give you the
numbers. 2,427,830.
That
was in 76. this commencement will will mark the 200
000 right i'm glad you mentioned that good that was
a good number you bet 1977 we had two million well
two million two hundred forty eight thousand with
twenty thousand contributors we dropped down see
from you and you're giving you'll drop down
depending on events when we publish the directory
it goes up see people want that book yeah And if you
make a contribution of more than $38, whatever it
is. Now, here's the Development Foundation. See,
in 53, it was founded for $2,210. And in 1977,
it
had a total of $12,254,055. 1977.
That's where we transferred that PES money over
there. Speaking of money, what about the former
students' involvement with the legislature and
the appropriations process? Yeah, we do
lobbying. Did you do a lot of it personally? Yes. I
had a network set up of Aggies and contacts that
they could make. And I had centers in El Paso and
cities like Midland, Odessa, and Lubbock. And of
course, the Dallas-Fort Worth, the big one where
you had most of them, Houston, we had chairman,
mainly the president let us know where the
weaknesses were and we'd kind of be able to contact
our representative. What they did was up to them.
Because we couldn't spend any annual fund money.
See, I had to fight people all the time. They wanted
us to put a lobbyist on a payroll. I said, oh, shit,
no, don't do that. I said, if you do that with the
foundation or with the association, We're going
to lose our tax exempt status. Hell, someone can
file on us. I said, we can't do that. We can't use any
of that money other than the purpose for which it's
stated in our charter. Could have gotten you in
trouble quick. You know what I used to get in
trouble with all the time? I had a guy in Beaumont
call me. He was giving money under the table to
athletes. And he called me and says, say, you got
any of those receipts last year kicking around
there? I said, no, Eber. We don't have receipts for
annual giving or any giving laying around or
kicking around someplace. Like I said, they're
very closely monitored, and the IRS checks them
out. I said, we have to report by number every
receipt. And he said, well, you can write me a
letter thanking me for getting it. I said, no, I
can't do it, not unless it's received. I said, I'd
lose my job. I'd go to jail. I said, you're asking me
to violate the law. Well, hell, I can't get any tax
relief. I said, Eber, I'm sorry, I can't. He tried
to get Olive to do it. He tried to get other people to
do it. And then he finally came and they said, no,
no, no, we can't do that. You have to talk to Buck.
Sorry, I said. This is just another example of the
kind of pressure. I'm sure he wasn't the only one.
If they didn't ask, at least they thought about it.
Oh, no, they asked. Now, why did you decide to
retire? Well, for two reasons. One, I had a big
surgery. I had an aortal aneurysm in 1978. And I
felt good. I was doing all right. I was swimming. I
was really watching my health. And what I was
trying to do is not have a heart attack. My heart was
pretty good. But I had these bones. DeBakey put me
in a Dacron aorta. And I knew then the committees
were working on this. Alumni Center. And I was at a
point where I really had to make some decisions,
big decisions about what I wanted to do the rest of
my life, because I was kind of worried. Hell,
Rudder had died, Williams had died, everybody all
around me had died, and I knew that I wasn't in the, I
knew that I had enough stress. I just, so, and the,
We were in Denver, no, in Colorado Springs, and
Dick Hash and Ed Davis took my message to the board
and said, if you'll continue on salary, $865,000,
or at least a reasonable salary. Because I knew I
could make some. I taught industrial
communications over in the engineering
technology department. ET-401, I think it was.
But I was just getting like a graduate student
about $600 a month, which is all right. I really
didn't need it. I had three classes a week. So that
was fair enough. But I had so many requests for
consulting. So I probably had about 20 or more that
I had to say, I'll call you back, or I'll let you know
when. I started doing that. Well, then I've gone
for my wife again, and she's getting worse and
worse. She was in a bad depression, and I was
running back and forth to Houston.